Gavin paused wearily .
`` You ca n't stay here with me .
It 's late and you said they 'd be here by dawn '' .
You ca n't make me go '' .
Gavin sank down again into his chair and began to rock .
He was thinking of Rittenhouse and how he had left him there , to rock to death on the porch of the Splendide .
It was the only thing in his life for which he felt guilt .
Beneath his black shirt his frail shoulders shook and croaks of pain broke from his throat , the stored pain shattering free in slow gasps , terrible to see .
Clayton tried to call back the face of the man he had known .
Against that other man he could rally his anger ; ; against this bent man in the chair he was powerless .
Gavin 's lips moved so that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words .
`` Do you remember Big Charlie '' ? ?
He whispered .
He stuck with me all these years .
Just a half-breed 'pache , never said much , never meant anythin to me , but he stuck with me .
He got into a fight with Tom English , your brother 's son .
It was a fair fight , the boy provoked it -- Big Charlie told me so .
I believed him .
They killed Big Charlie , dumped his body in my rose garden two nights ago .
My men , they all left me .
Just cleared out .
I did n't understand why , Clay .
They just all cleared out .
I treated them fair '' He wiped his lips with a sleeve , then stared at Clayton in a childish kind of wonder .
`` Do you mean '' -- he asked almost shyly -- `` you want me to go with you , wherever you 're goin '' ? ?
`` You do n't hate me any more '' ? ?
Clayton choked , shook his head , murmuring , `` No '' .
The sentry was not dead .
He was , in fact , showing signs of reviving .
He had been carrying an Enfield rifle and a holstered navy cap-and-ball pistol .
A bayonet hung in a belt scabbard .
He was partially uniformed in a cavalry tunic and hat .
Mike stripped these from him and donned them .
He and Dean tied and gagged the man , using his belt and shirt for the purpose .
They dragged him inside the building .
Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet .
Julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him .
`` You are hurt '' ! !
She breathed .
I never felt better in my life '' , Fiske blustered .
He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek .
`` Thank you , My dear '' , he said .
`` You are very brave '' .
Mike silenced them .
`` We 'll talk later .
First , we 've got to get out of here '' .
We 'll grab horses '' , Dean said .
`` The main bunch is outside , but there are some over there inside the wall '' .
Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride .
But it at least offered him a chance for living .
He had none here .
And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried .
The guerrilla bivouac remained silent .
Light showed in the orderly room across the parade ground .
Someone evidently was on duty there .
No doubt there would be men guarding the horses .
a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight .
Evidently this was a precaution so that mounts would be available in an emergency .
He handed the guard 's rifle to Fiske .
`` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride '' , he said .
`` We 'll stampede the rest .
You stay with the ladies .
All of you be ready to ride hell for leather '' .
He added , `` If this does n't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' .
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
Susan halted Dean and kissed him .
She clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes .
Mike turned away .
He was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss had n't meant what he had believed it had .
He felt unutterably weary .
Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms .
He kissed her also , and with deep tenderness .
She too began to weep .
He released her and joined Mike .
`` All right '' , he said .
Mike only said , `` Later '' .
McLish '' ! !
Susan said fiercely .
The way you were careful '' ? ?
He snorted .
`` Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ? ?
He kept going .
He wanted no more sentimental scenes with her .
He might say or do something foolish .
Something all of them would regret .
He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean 's affections from her .
And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride .
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
`` Stay well back of me '' , he said .
`` I 'm going to walk up to the horses , bold as brass , pretending I 'm one of the guerrillas .
There 's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close '' .
the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade .
It was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings .
One wing stood open .
Mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses .
They were tethered , army style , on stable lines .
A voice spoke near-at-hand .
`` Who 's that '' ? ?
me '' , Mike said .
`` Is that you , Bill '' ? ?
He located his man .
The guard stood in the shadow of the stockade wall just out of reach of the moonlight .
Mike kept walking and got within arm 's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch .
Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol .
But the luck that had been running their way left him .
The guard instinctively parried the blow with his rifle .
He tried to veer the rifle around to fire into Mike 's body .
Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded .
The bullet went wide .
Mike swung the pistol in a savage backlash .
This time it connected solidly on the man 's temple , felling him .
The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills .
The startled horses began rearing on their tethers .
Dean came rushing up .
`` Are you hit '' ? ?
He demanded .
the fat 's in the fire '' ! !
Mike said .
`` There 's no chance now of all of us getting away .
You 'll have to try it alone '' .
The sentry 's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need .
Mike took the bayonet from Dean 's hand and slashed the picket line .
`` Up you go '' ! !
He said .
`` Ride '' ! !
Dean resisted Mike 's attempt to push him toward the horse .
`` Why not you '' ? ?
He protested .
Dammit '' ! !
Mike said frantically .
`` You 're lighter than me .
It 's our only chance now .
Try to find these Feds .
The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back .
You 're the one that 's taking the big chance '' .
Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand .
No telling how good this horse is '' , Mike panted .
`` Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble .
Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight .
Take the pistol .
You might need it .
We 'll still have the rifle , and I might be able to round up some more .
I 'll stampede the rest of these horses so they ca n't chase you '' .
Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back .
`` McLish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I 'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' .
he was on his way at a gallop .
Mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet .
He lifted a screeching war whoop .
That touched off a total stampede .
He darted inside the stockade and freed the horses there .
These poured through the gate and joined the flight .
The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges .
The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure .
Apaches '' ! !
Mike yelled .
`` They 're stealin ' the stock '' ! !
He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings .
He crouched there .
His shout had been taken up and repeated .
The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses .
All were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all .
Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post .
They had pistols in their hands .
They bawled questions that were not answered in the uproar .
They followed the others toward the east gate .
the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches .
Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings .
He crawled beneath the two supply wagons which stood between the buildings and peered around a corner .
The area was deserted .
A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike 's left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade .
Mike crawled to the door and peered in .
The orderly room seemed to be deserted .
A lantern hung from a peg , giving light .
he found that three rifles were stacked in a corner .
A brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches .
An ammunition case stood open , containing canisters which contained powder cartridges .
Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty .
the load he peered from the door .
His looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas .
He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration .
He set his bundle down .
Snatching the lantern from its peg , he shattered its globe with a blow against a post .
He picked up the powder canister and ran out .
Bursting paper cartridges , he scattered powder beneath the nearest wagon and dumped the contents of the canister upon it .
He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon .
He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house .
Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon .
The stockade was brilliantly lighted and the guerrillas sighted him .
They realized the truth .
Bullets began to snap past him .
One struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack .
Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again .
A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety .
Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down .
Guerrillas were racing toward him .
Susan and Julia came from the door and dragged him with them .
The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap .
Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door .
She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks .
Some tore entirely through the whipsawed post oak .
The iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars .
Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet .
He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls .
He peered from a loophole .
Guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house .
Mike snatched a pistol from the heap of scattered booty and fired .
He dropped a man with the first bullet .
the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit .
That halted the rush .
The guerrillas scattered for cover .
The wagons were burning fiercely .
The mudwagon had caught fire also .
The blaze was spreading to the frame buildings .
The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem .
`` Gawdamighty '' ! !
One screeched .
`` There goes our grub an ' ammunition '' ! !
a bucket line going '' ! !
Calhoun shouted .
`` Hurry ! !
Hurry '' ! !
The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring .
But what few containers they found were inadequate .
Many of them , in increasing panic , came running with water in their hats in a ludicrous effort .
Both buildings were in flames .
The heat drove the guerrillas back .
The roof of the command post began to buckle .
the wagons to the spring '' ! !
Lew Durkin yelled .
'em right into the spring ! !
Hustle '' ! !
One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame .
A sizable supply of powder had been touched off .
The wagons and the coach were beyond saving and so were the buildings .
The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike 's wound .
The bullet had torn through the flesh just above the knee , inflicting an ugly gash that was forming a pool of blood on the floor .
But it had missed the bone and had passed on through .
Susan and Julia ripped strips from their clothing and bound the injury .
Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it .
Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
Men crowded the streets and freight rigs and teams were moving about .
Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them .
Gyp 'll be holdin ' forth in some bar if he 's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters .
Pat only nodded .
`` Take one side of the street , and I 'll take the other '' , he proposed .
`` If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in '' .
Cobb 's assent was tight .
`` You do the same .
It 's all I ask , Stevens '' .
they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars .
Russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero .
Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief .
He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch .
Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird 's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside .
Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch .
The front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior .
Heading for the batwings , Cobb glanced perfunctorily through the nearest window , and suddenly dodged aside .
Nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits .
all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him .
Fierce anger surged through Russ .
He fought down the impulse to rush in and collar the vicious puncher on the spot .
the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below .
Stevens was nowhere in sight .
Muffling an exclamation , Russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down .
As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared .
What luck , Cobb '' ? ?
He said swiftly .
Russ pointed upward .
`` He 's there '' , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement .
Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side .
the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door .
Pat pushed through first .
Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside .
His eyes widened .
While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday .
Carmer himself was nowhere to be seen .
A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables .
Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place .
yuh goin ' '' ? ?
It was the barkeep .
Halting , Pat turned to survey him deliberately .
He did not reply , going on toward the back .
Less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , Cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt .
The bartender measured this situation with heavy eyes and decided he wanted no part of it .
He said no more .
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell .
Pat moved into it .
Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side .
All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder .
The door was locked .
A single kick made it spring open , shuddering .
Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike .
Russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside .
With a bellow Carmer lunged at him .
But he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled .
Cobb unleashed a single powerful jab that sent Gyp reeling wildly and crashing down with a whining groan .
He started to struggle up , heaving desperately .
Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach .
Kneeling , Cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned .
Okay , Stevens .
I 've drawn his fangs '' , he snapped .
`` Go through his pockets , will you ? ?
If we have to we 'll take him apart and see what he 's made of '' ! !
Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing .
Cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment .
Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer 's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell .
Cobb got it .
Straightening up , his eyes ablaze , he held out the battered Stetson .
this '' ! !
the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency .
Carmer 's ingenious cache for his loot had been found .
Stevens ! !
You were right '' , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer 's hat .
`` That is , if we can be sure this is Colcord 's money '' -- Pat grunted .
`` Where else would he get it ? ?
Count what you 've got there , Cobb .
We can soon tell '' .
Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly .
Pat nodded .
It 's within a hundred of what Crip had '' , he declared .
`` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on '' .
the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean .
His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful .
`` Shall we get out of here '' ? ?
the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come .
Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them .
Pausing in the outside door to glance behind him , Pat looked his unspoken warning and stepped out .
He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street .
Neither spoke till they reached their horses .
Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow .
It 'll be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ '' .
He started to return it .
his faint surprise Russ held up his hand .
`` Not me '' , he ruled decidedly .
I 've had enough .
It was you that tracked it down anyway , Stevens '' , he pursued strictly .
`` I 'll shove along home '' .
Whatever you say '' .
Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered .
`` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly .
Old Crip was n't '' , retorted Cobb tartly .
`` He 'll know when you tell him .
But I want this to sink in awhile .
Then maybe next time he wo n't be so quick on the trigger '' .
Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs .
`` You 're the doctor '' , he returned with a smile .
`` But I still think Penny 's an awful nice girl , Russ '' -- `` You do n't have to tell me '' , flashed Cobb .
Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street .
Pat let him go , following more leisurely .
At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler .
The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck .
`` Penny 's always glad to see me over there '' , he mused bleakly .
Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle .
that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober 's part in recent events .
`` Gyp Carmer could n't have known about Colcord 's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? ?
He asked himself .
`` It 's the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money .
an accident could that be '' ? ?
home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun .
In town no one paid much attention to an occasional shot ; ; but on the range gunfire had a meaning .
Hauling up , Russ listened carefully .
Two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant .
Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house .
He tightened up in a twinkling .
So far as he knew , only his father could be there .
What did it mean ? ?
Clapping spurs to the bronc he set off at a sharp canter , with growing alarm .
His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing .
Still a quarter-mile away , the fresh clap of guns only served to increase his speed .
Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face .
it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression .
He knew now what he was up against .
Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight .
himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly .
If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later .
this way ! !
He ai n't gone far '' ! !
A harsh cry floated to him across the brush .
A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side .
The would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close .
Dismounting , Russ looked about hastily .
Toward the west this depression led toward a draw .
Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range .
the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw .
He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind .
He had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot .
A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot .
A slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away .
A second twitched his shirtsleeve , and he felt a brief burn on his upper arm .
Another snarled close overhead .
Jumping Jerusalem ! !
Let 's get out of here '' ! !
the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw .
The long minute before he reached effective cover seemed endless .
Sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment .
He heard cries from behind him , but he could make out no words .
He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it .
Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed .
the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range .
he must chance it .
He clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about .
November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions .
And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record .
Every plane that could fly was sent into the air .
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan .
Anything the enemy flew or floated was his target .
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte .
Each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs .
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip .
It was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes .
No one had much to say .
The sky glowered down at them .
There was a feeling that this mission would be canceled like all the others and that this muddy wet dark world of combat would go on forever .
The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle .
Donovan snatched Greg 's chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it .
His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot .
Greg climbed into the cockpit feeling as if he had never been in one before .
But his hands and those of Donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure .
I 've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg 's shoulders .
`` But this goddamn climate .
It 's for carabao not airplanes '' .
We 'll make out .
Do n't you worry , chief '' , Greg replied , wondering if he himself believed it .
I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her .
She sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes .
And what eyes they were .
Big and dark , a melting , golden brown .
Eyes like hot honey , eyes that sizzled .
Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them .
It was a disturbingly familiar face , too , but I could n't remember where we had met .
I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss '' ? ?
I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was '' -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself .
`` I 'm sorry .
Shall I go on '' ? ?
She smiled .
It was her first smile .
worth waiting for .
Sure '' .
I said .
`` But one word at a time , O.K. '' ? ?
She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , `` Relax , let me take your things .
Would you like a drink , or coffee '' ? ?
thanks '' .
She stood up , pulled the coat from her shoulders and started to slide it off , then let out a high-pitched scream and I let out a low-pitched , wobbling sound like a muffler blowing out .
She was wearing nothing beneath the coat .
She jerked the coat back on and squeezed it around her again , but not soon enough .
There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I 'd seen her somewhere before .
I forgot '' ! !
She yelped .
`` Oh , do forgive me .
I 'm sorry '' ! !
I forgive '' -- `` That 's what started all the trouble in the first place .
Oh , dear , I 'm all unstrung '' .
You and me both , dear .
Have n't we have n't I seen you .
I mean , surely we 've '' -- `` You may have seen me on TV '' , she said .
`` I 've done several filmed commercials for '' -- Then it hit me .
`` Zing '' ! !
I cried .
day Matsuo saw a marine .
The enemy came looming around a bend in the trail and Matsuo took a hasty shot , then fled without knowing the result , ran until breath was a pain in his chest and his legs were rubbery .
As his feet slowed , he felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand .
He crossed the next meadow and climbed a tree where the jungle trail resumed .
the leafiest part of the tree , straddling a broad horizontal limb , he could see over the meadow .
For a while he was content to let events develop in their good time .
He had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and while his shot had probably bred indecision , they would soon come hunting .
His superiors had emphasized that marines tortured others for the sheer pleasure .
Yesterday ; ; today ; ; tomorrow : no surrender .
His remembering the self-dictate brought no peace -- only a faint chill of doubt .
He murmured to himself , with firmness : `` No surrender '' .
It was best to die fighting the marines .
His superiors had also preached this , saying it was the way for eternal honor .
What if the marines never came ? ?
His comrades were all dead .
He had no rice .
Then it would be a choice between starvation and suicide .
Whichever the way , he would rot in this vast choking green , his wife never to receive an urn of his ashes .
He sighed and leaned for a moment against the trunk .
His fingers touched the bone handle of a knife .
The knife , an ammunition pouch , and a half-filled bottle of purified water hung on his belt .
Besides the belt he wore a loin cloth .
he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing .
Gloom receded .
The marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight .
His fatigues made a streak of almost phosphorescent green in the mist .
the meadow '' , Matsuo said under his breath .
The man leaned against a tree and wiped a sleeve across his face .
A signal ? ?
Matsuo lifted his rifle , easing the sling under his left upper arm for steadiness .
Fresh on his mind were events of the past day when his whole regiment was destroyed in the hills .
They had fought from caves , and the marines resorted to burning them out .
Even now , like a ringing in his ears , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows .
A wave of flame rippling through their cave had reached Nagamo , his friend , and with a shriek the man bolted through the entrance , then slowed to the jerky walk of a puppet , his uniform blazing .
The marines let him advance .
When he sank on his knees , they had allowed him to char without administering the stroke of mercy .
Matsuo had faked death and was pitched on a stack of corpses , both the burned and the unburned , the latter decomposing rapidly under the tropical sun .
The callous marines had laughed at each other 's retching , while stacking bodies .
Matsuo repeatedly choked down his own nausea .
At nightfall he had been able to sneak down a hillside and into the jungle , reeking of death .
he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze .
He decided that the marines must be deploying around the meadow , with the one left to distract him .
He strained his hearing .
Cautious feet stepping on leafmold ; ; faint creaking of belts and slings ; ; whispers : he heard none of these .
Only the hum of insects and the distant fluttering call of a bird .
Because he could n't hear them , he was more convinced they were there .
A spectacle occurred across the meadow : the lone marine took a seat on the ground ; ; leaning sidewise on a tree trunk , he embraced it .
Humiliation made Matsuo tremble .
While his comrades cocked the trap , that one behaved as if it was some dull maneuver .
aim at the man 's face , Matsuo squeezed the trigger up to the point of discharge , and then he changed his mind .
He wanted the arrogant marine to know fear , and so he aimed above the head .
The shot reverberated in diminishing whiplashes of sound .
Hush followed .
Like a mischievous boy expecting punishment , Matsuo awaited reaction from the jungle .
How stupid to give his position away .
The jungle did not retort .
The sitter remained seated hugging the tree .
Before long the atmosphere reverted to its old normalcy , and insects hummed and birds occasionally called .
Matsuo puzzled and grew anxious over the complete passiveness , concluding that he was the butt of a devilish joke .
Five or so minutes later the marine abruptly pulled up and stepped into sunlight , immediately throwing his hands over his eyes .
He went into a whirling dance , a sort of blind chasing of the tail .
It ended when he tumbled ; ; but jumping right up , he staggered in no particular direction .
He wore no head cover of any kind and , more odd , had no visible weapon .
a sudden decisiveness he lurched in Matsuo 's direction , crossing the meadow in a zigzagging gallop .
When he got closer to the tree , Matsuo noted the wild look on his face .
The pockets of his jacket bulged .
Hand grenades .
The bobbing head was a poor target , so Matsuo shot him in the upper trunk .
The marine spun , clapping a hand high on his chest , and dived forward .
In the hush that followed the echoes , Matsuo was tense .
They could come on him now without difficulty .
Gradually he reached a conclusion .
The marine was alone , for they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree .
the tree he scrambled and knelt at the edge of foliage .
The marine was sprawled some thirty yards away , one arm extended .
Matsuo jumped when the hidden arm flopped out .
Reflex ? ?
Rifle leveled on the man , he made a rush .
Heat , in the sunlight , pressed in like an invisible crowd .
He squatted by the head , gently placing the rifle on the ground .
With a snakestrike motion he grasped the hair , and , twisting , pulled the marine over on his back .