American democratic thought , pointed up the relation between the Protestant movement in this country and the development of a social religion , which he called the American Democratic Faith .
Those familiar with his work will remember that he placed the incipience of the democratic faith at around 1850 .
And he describes it as a balanced polarity between the notions of the free individual and what he called the fundamental law .
I want to say more about Gabriel 's so-called fundamental law .
But first I want to quote him on the relationship that he found between religion and politics in this country and what happened to it .
He points out that from the time of Jackson on through World War 1 , , evangelical Protestantism was a dominant influence in the social and political life of America .
He terms this early enthusiasm `` Romantic Christianity '' and concludes that its similarity to democratic beliefs of that day is so great that `` the doctrine of liberty seems but a secular version of its counterpart in evangelical Protestantism '' .
Let me quote him even more fully , for his analysis is important to my theme .
He says : `` beside the Protestant philosophy of Progress , as expressed in radical or conservative millenarianism , should be placed the doctrine of the democratic faith which affirmed it to be the duty of the destiny of the United States to assist in the creation of a better world by keeping lighted the beacon of democracy '' .
He specifies , `` in the middle period of the Nineteenth Century it was colored by Christian supernaturalism , in the Twentieth Century it was affected by naturalism .
But in every period it has been humanism '' .
And let me add , utopianism , also .
Some fourteen or fifteen years ago , in an essay I called The Leader Follows -- Where ? ?
I used his polarity to illustrate what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call Progressivism .
It seemed to me that the liberals had scrapped the balanced polarity and reposed both liberty and the fundamental law in the common man .
That is to say Gabriel 's fundamental law had been so much modified by this time that it was neither fundamental nor law any more .
It is a weakness of Gabriel 's analysis that he never seems to realize that his so-called fundamental law had already been cut loose from its foundations when it was adapted to democracy .
And with Progressivism the Religion of Humanity was replacing what Gabriel called Christian supernaturalism .
And the common man was developing mythic power , or charisma , on his own .
During the decade that followed , the common man , as that piece put it , grew uncomfortable as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow ( Wilson ) only to learn from Science , to his shocked relief that after all there was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow -- that there was a chemical formula for him , and that too much could n't be expected of him .
The socialism implicit in the slogan of the Roosevelt Revolution , freedom from want and fear , seems a far cry from the individualism of the First Amendment to the Constitution , or of the Jacksonian frontier .
What had happened to the common man ? ?
French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence in this country before the days of Popularism .
The riotous onrush of industrialism after the War for Southern Independence and the general secular drift to the Religion of Humanity , however , prepared the way for a reception of the French Revolution 's socialistic offspring of one sort of another .
The first of which to find important place in our federal government was the graduated income tax under Wilson .
Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s , the dislocations of the Depression , the common ethos of Materialism everywhere , all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy of the Little People .
However , it is important to trace the philosophy of the French Revolution to its sources to understand the common democratic origin of individualism and socialism and the influence of the latter on the former .
That John Locke 's philosophy of the social contract fathered the American Revolution with its Declaration of Independence , I believe , we generally accept .
Yet , after Rousseau had given the social contract a new twist with his notion of the General Will , the same philosophy , it may be said , became the idea source of the French Revolution also .
The importance of Rousseau 's twist has not always been clear to us , however .
This notion of the General Will gave rise to the Commune of Paris in the Revolution and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship .
And it is clearly argued by Lord Percy of Newcastle , in his remarkable long essay , The Heresy Of Democracy , and in a more general way by Voegelin , in his New Science Of Politics , that this same Rousseauan idea , descending through European democracy , is the source of Marx 's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat .
This is important to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves in after World War 2 , and our great democratic victory that brought no peace .
The long road that had taken liberals in this country into the social religion of democracy , into a worship of man , led logically to the Marxist dream of a classless society under a Socialist State .
And the ussr existed as the revolutionary experiment in radical socialism , the ultimate exemplar .
And by the time the war ended , liberal leadership in this country was spiritually Marxist .
We will recall that the still confident liberals of the Truman administration gathered with other Western utopians in San Francisco to set up the legal framework , finally and at last , to rationalize war -- to rationalize want and fear -- out of the world : the United Nations .
We of the liberal-led world got all set for peace and rehabilitation .
Then suddenly we found ourselves in the middle of another fight , an irrational , an indecent , an undeclared and immoral war with our strongest ( and some had thought noblest ) ally .
During the next five years the leaders of the Fair Deal reluctantly backed down from the optimistic expectations of the New Deal .
During the next five years liberal leaders in the United States sank in the cumulative confusion attendant upon and manifested in a negative policy of Containment -- and the bitterest irony -- enforced and enforceable only by threat of a weapon that we felt the greatest distaste for but could not abandon : the atom bomb .
In 1952 , it will be remembered , the G.O.P. without positive program campaigned on the popular disillusionment with liberal leadership and won overwhelmingly .
All of this , I know , is recent history familiar to you .
But I have been at some pains to review it as the drama of the common man , to point up what happened to him under Eisenhower 's leadership .
A perceptive journalist , Sam Lubell , has phrased it in the title of one of his books as the revolt of the moderates .
He opens his discourse , however , with a review of the Eisenhower inaugural festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents , all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age .
The show was colorful , indeed , exuberant , but the press for all its assiduity could detect no note of a fateful rendezvous with destiny .
Lubell offers his book as an explanation of why there was no clue .
And I select this sentence as its pertinent summation : `` in essence the drama of his ( Eisenhower 's ) Presidency can be described as the ordeal of a nation turned conservative and struggling -- thus far with but limited and precarious success -- to give effective voice and force to that conservatism '' .
I will assume that we are all aware of the continuing struggle , with its limited and precarious success , toward conservatism .
It has moved on various levels , it has been clamorous and confused .
Obviously there has been no agreement on what American conservatism is , or rather , what it should be .
For it was neglected , not to say nascent , when the struggle began .
I saw a piece the other day assailing William Buckley , author of Man And God at Yale and publisher of The National Review , as no conservative at all , but an old liberal .
I would agree with this view .
But I 'm not here to define conservatism .
What I am here to do is to report on the gyrations of the struggle -- a struggle that amounts to self-redefinition -- to see if we can predict its future course .
One of the obvious conclusions we can make on the basis of the last election , I suppose , is that we , the majority , were dissatisfied with Eisenhower conservatism .
Though , to be sure , we gave Kennedy no very positive approval in the margin of his preferment .
This is , however , symptomatic of our national malaise .
But before I try to diagnose it , I would offer other evidence .
I will mention two volumes of specific comment on this malaise that appeared last year .
The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise , sponsored by Life magazine , under the title of The National Purpose .
The contributors to this testament were all well-known : a former Democratic candidate for President , a New Deal poet , the magazine 's chief editorial writer , two newspaper columnists , head of a national broadcasting company , a popular Protestant evangelist , etc. . What I want to point out here is that all of them are ex-liberals , or modified liberals , with perhaps one exception .
I suppose we might classify Billy Graham as an old liberal .
And I would further note that they all -- with one exception again -- sang in one key or another the same song .
Its refrain was : `` let us return to the individualistic democracy of our forefathers for our salvation '' .
Adlai Stevenson expressed some reservations about this return .
Others invoked technology and common sense .
Only Walter Lippman envisioned the possibility of our having `` outlived most of what we used to regard as the program of our national purposes '' .
the most notable thing about the incantation of these ex-liberals was that the one-time shibboleth of socialism was conspicuously absent .
The second specific comment was the report of Eisenhower 's Commission on National Goals , titled Goals For Americans .
They , perhaps , gave the pitch of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower requested that the Commission be administered by the American Assembly of Columbia University , because it was non-partisan .
The Commission seems to represent the viewpoint of what I would call the unconscious liberal , but not unconscious enough , to invoke the now taboo symbolism of socialism .
And here again we hear the same refrain mentioned above : `` the paramount goal of the United States set long ago was to guard the rights of the individual , ensure his development , enlarge his opportunity '' .
This group is secularist and their program tends to be technological .
But it is the need to undertake these testaments that I would submit here as symptom of the common man 's malaise .
And let me add Murray 's new book as another symptom of it , particularly so in view of the attention Time magazine gave it when it came out recently .
Father Murray goes back to the Declaration of Independence , too , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception .
I will reserve discussion of it for a moment , however , to return to President Kennedy .
As symptomatic of the common man 's malaise , he is most significant : a liberal and a Catholic , elected by the skin of his teeth .
Does that not suggest to you an uncertain and uneasy , not to say confused , state of the public mind ? ?
What is the common man 's complaint ? ?
's take a panoramic look back over the course we have come .
Has not that way been lit always by the lamp of liberalism up until the turning back under Eisenhower ? ?
And the basic character of that liberalism has been spiritual rather than economic .
Ralph Gabriel gave it the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress .
But there 's a subjective side to that utopian outlook .
our society have a runaway , uncontrollable growth of technology which may end our civilization , or a normal , healthy growth ? ?
Here there may be an analogy with cancer : we can detect cancers by their rapidly accelerating growth , determinable only when related to the more normal rate of healthy growth .
Should the accelerating growth of technology then warn us ? ?
Noting such evidence is the first step ; ; and almost the only `` cure '' is early detection and removal .
One way to determine whether we have so dangerous a technology would be to check the strength of our society 's organs to see if their functioning is as healthy as before .
an objective look at our present procedures may move us to consider seriously this possibly analogous situation .
In any event , whether society may have cancer , or merely a virus infection , the `` disease '' , we shall find , is political , economical , social , and even medical .
Have not our physical abilities already deteriorated because of the more sedentary lives we are now living ? ?
Hence the prime issue , as I see it , is whether a democratic or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind , or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible with its own needs as a force of nature .
We are already committed to establishing man 's supremacy over nature and everywhere on earth , not merely in the limited social-political-economical context we are fond of today .
we go on endlessly trying to draw the line , color and other , as to which kind of man we wish to see dominate .
We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to contend we can not realize a universal goal in the immediate future is to be extremely shortsighted , if nothing else .
We must believe we have the ability to affect our own destinies : otherwise why try anything ? ?
these pages the term `` technology '' is used to include any and all means which could amplify , project , or augment man 's control over himself and over other men .
Naturally this includes all communication forms , e.g. languages , or any social , political , economic or religious structures employed for such control .
Properly mindful of all the cultures in existence today throughout the world , we must employ these resources without war or violent revolution .
we were creating a wholly new society , we could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man ; ; best growth .
But we can not start off with a clean slate .
So we must first analyze our present institutions with respect to the effect of each on man 's major needs .
which institution most needs correction , I would say the corporation as it exists in America today .
At first glance this appears strange : of all people , was not America founded by rugged individualists who established a new way of life still inspiring `` undeveloped '' societies abroad ? ?
But hear Harrison E. Salisbury , former Moscow correspondent of The New York Times , and author of `` To Moscow -- And Beyond '' .
In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines .
They were not diplomats or jazz musicians , or even organizers of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays , but rugged capitalist entrepreneurs like Henry Ford , Hugh Cooper , Thomas Campbell , the International Harvester Co. , and David W. Griffith .
Their kind created an American culture superior to any in the world , an industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or program a series of consultations of interested agencies .
This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda '' corporations now outmoded .
the public 's present attitude toward business stems from the fact that the `` rugged capitalist entrepreneur '' no more exists in America .
In his stead is a milquetoast version known as `` the corporation '' .
But even if we can not see the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America , foreigners can ; ; and our loss of `` prestige '' abroad is the direct result .
No amount of ballyhoo will cover up the sordid facts .
If we want respect from ourselves or others , we will have to earn it .
First , let us realize that whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times , now the corporation per se can not take economic leadership .
Businesses must develop as a result of the ideas , energies and ambitions of an individual having purpose and comprehensive ability within one mind .
we `` forced '' individuals to assume the corporate structure by means of taxes and other legal statutes , we adopted what I would term `` pseudo-capitalism '' and so took a major step toward socialism .
The biggest loss , of course , was the individual 's lessened desire and ability to give his services to the growth of his company and our economy .
Socialism , I grant , has a definite place in our society .
us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to a form that is not truly capitalistic .
Some forms of capitalism do indeed work -- superb organizations , a credit to any society .
But the pseudo-capitalism which dictates our whole economy as well as our politics and social life , will not stand close scrutiny .
Its pretense to operate in the public interest is little more than a sham .
It serves only its own stockholders and poorly at that .
As a creative enterprise , its abilities are primarily in `` swallowing '' creative enterprises developed outside its own organization ( an ability made possible by us , and almost mandatory ) .
As to benefits to employees , it is notorious for its callous disregard except where it depends on them for services .
The corporation in America is in reality our form of socialism , vying in a sense with the other socialistic form that has emerged within governmental bureaucracy .
But while the corporation has all the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization ( so cumbersome it can not constructively do much of anything not compatible with its need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo ) , unluckily it does not have the desirable aspect of socialism , the motivation to operate for the benefit of society as a whole .
So we are faced with a vast network of amorphous entities perpetuating themselves in whatever manner they can , without regard to the needs of society , controlling society and forcing upon it a regime representing only the corporation 's needs for survival .
The corporation has a limited , specific place in our society .
Ideally speaking , it should be allowed to operate only where the public has a great stake in the continuity of supply or services , and where the actions of a single proprietor are secondary to the needs of society .
Examples are in public utilities , making military aircraft and accessories , or where the investment and risk for a proprietorship would be too great for a much needed project impossible to achieve by any means other than the corporate form , e.g. constructing major airports or dams .
Thus , if corporations are not to run away with us , they must become quasi-governmental institutions , subject to public control and needs .
In all other areas , private initiative of the `` proprietorship '' type should be urged to produce the desired goods and services .
Proprietorship Avoiding runaway technology can be done only by assuring a humane society ; ; and for this human beings must be firmly in control of the economics on which our society rests .
Such genuine human leadership the proprietorship can offer , corporations can not .
It can project long-range goals for itself .
Corporations react violently to short-range stimuli , e.g. , quarterly and annual dividend reports .
Proprietorships can establish a unity and integrity of control ; ; corporations , being more amorphous , can not .
Proprietorships can establish a meaningful identity , representing a human personality , and thus establish sincere relationships with customers and community .
Corporations are apt by nature to be impersonal , inhumane , shortsighted and almost exclusively profit-motivated , a picture they could scarcely afford to present to the public .
The proprietor is able to create a leadership impossible in the corporate structure with its board of directors and stockholders .
Leadership is lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop .
Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises can acquire experiences of the most varied , complicated and trying type so that at maturation they have developed the competence and willingness to accept the personal responsibility so sorely needed now .
government must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest .
Proprietorships should get the tax advantages now accruing to corporations , e.g. the chance to accumulate capital so vital for growth .
Corporations should pay added taxes , to be used for educational purposes ( not necessarily of the formal type ) .
The right to leave legacies should be substantially reduced and ultimately eliminated .
To perpetuate wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to the fore , and is basically anti-democratic .
When the proprietor dies , the establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it .
Strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole .
Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship , if internally motivated , prevent a healthy relationship .
Certainly external forces should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to do so .
If we can not stop warfare in our own economic system , how can we expect to abolish it internationally ? ?
One kind of proprietorship These proposals would go far toward creating the economic atmosphere favoring growth of the individual , who , in turn , would help us to cope with runaway technology .
Individual human strength is needed to pit against an inhuman condition .
The battle is not easy .
We are tempted to blame others for our problems rather than look them straight in the face and realize they are of our own making and possible of solution only by ourselves with the help of desperately needed , enlightened , competent leaders .
Persons developed in today 's corporations can not hope to serve here -- a judgment based on experiences of my own in business and in activities outside .
In my own company , in effect a partnership , although legally a corporation , I have been able to do many things for my employees which `` normal '' corporations of comparable size and nature would have been unable to do .
Also , I am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of a partnership , I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems for myself and my fellow-employees .
Any abilities I may have were achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the growth and control of my business , coupled with raising my family .
This combined experience , on a foundation of very average , I assure you , intelligence and background , has helped me do things many well-informed people would bet heavily against .
Perhaps a list of some of the `` practices '' of my company will help here .
The company grew out of efforts by two completely inexperienced men in their late twenties , neither having a formal education applicable to , or experience in , manufacturing or selling our type of articles .
an initial investment of $ 1,200 in 1943 , it has grown , with no additional capital investment , to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $ 10,000,000 ( we do n't disclose financial figures to the public ) .
Its growth continues steadily on a par with past growth ; ; and no limitation is in evidence .
Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance in just a few years time , despite substantial , well established competition .
the last years of Woodrow Wilson 's administration , a red scare developed in our country .
Many Americans reacted irrationally to the challenge of Russia and turned to the repression of ideas by force .
Postmaster General Burleson set about to protect the American people against radical propaganda that might be spread through the mails .
Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals to the jails , in direct violation of their constitutional rights .
Then , not many years later , the Un-American Activities Committee , under the leadership of Martin Dies , pilloried hundreds of decent , patriotic citizens .
Anyone who tried to remedy some of the most glaring defects in our form of democracy was denounced as a traitorous red whose real purpose was the destruction of our government .
This hysteria reached its height under the leadership of Senator Joseph McCarthy .
Demagogues of this sort found communist bogeys lurking behind any new idea that would run counter to stereotyped notions .
New ideas were dangerous and must be repressed , no matter how .
Those who would suppress dangerous thoughts , credit ideas with high potency .
They give strict interpretation to William James ' statement that `` Every idea that enters the mind tends to express itself '' .
They seem to believe that a person will act automatically as soon as he contacts something new .
Hence , the only defensible procedure is to repress any and every notion , unless it gives evidence that it is perfectly safe .
this danger , however , we are informed on every hand that ideas , not machines , are our finest tools ; ; they are priceless even though they can not be recorded on a ledger page ; ; they are the most valuable of commodities -- and the most salable , for their demand far exceeds supply .
So all-important are ideas , we are told , that persons successful in business and happy in social life usually fall into two classes : those who invent new ideas of their own , and those who borrow , beg , or steal from others .
an unrestricted flow of ideas , all will be well , and we are even assured that `` an idea a day will keep the sheriff away '' .
That , however , may also bring the police , if the thinking does not meet with social approval .
Criminals , as well as model citizens , exercise their minds .
Merely having a mental image of some sort is not the all-important consideration .
course , there must be clarity : a single distinct impression is more valuable than many fuzzy ones .
But clarity is not enough .
The writer took a class of college students to the state hospital for the mentally ill in St. Joseph , Missouri .
An inmate , a former university professor , expounded to us , logically and clearly , that someone was pilfering his thoughts .
He appealed to us to bring his case to the attention of the authorities that justice might be done .
Despite the clarity of his presentation , his idea was not of Einsteinian calibre .
True , ideas are important , perhaps life 's most precious treasures .
But have we not gone overboard in stressing their significance ? ?
Have we not actually developed idea worship ? ?
Ideas we must have , and we seek them everywhere .
We scour literature for them ; ; here we find stored the wisdom of great minds .
But are all these works worthy of consideration ? ?
Can they stand rigid scrutiny ? ?
Shakespeare 's wit and wisdom , his profound insight into human nature , have stood the test of centuries .
But was he infallible in all things ? ?
What of his treatment of the Jew in The Merchant Of Venice ? ?
Shakespeare gives us a vivid picture of Shylock , but probably he never saw a Jew , unless in some of his travels .
The Jews had been banished from England in 1290 and were not permitted to return before 1655 , when Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years .
any had escaped expulsion by hiding , they certainly would not frequent the market-place .
Shakespeare did not usually invent the incidents in his plays , but borrowed them from old stories , ballads , and plays , wove them together , and then breathed into them his spark of life .
Rather than from a first-hand study of Jewish people , his delineation of Shylock stems from a collection of Italian stories , Il Pecorone , published in 1558 , although written almost two centuries earlier .
He could learn at second hand from books , but could not thus capture the real Jewish spirit .
Harris J. Griston , in Shaking The Dust From Shakespeare ( 216 ) , writes : `` There is not a word spoken by Shylock which one would expect from a real Jew '' .
He took the story of the pound of flesh and had to fasten it on someone .
The Jew was the safest victim .
No Jew was on hand to boycott his financially struggling theater .
It would have been unwise policy , for instance , to apply the pound-of-flesh characterization to the thrifty Scotchman .
Just as now anyone may hurl insults at a citizen of Mars , or even of Tikopia , and no senatorial investigation will result .
Who cares about them ! !
Shakespeare does not tell us that Shylock was an aberrant individual .
He sets him forth as being typical of the group .
He tells of his `` Jewish heart '' -- not a Shylockian heart ; ; but a Jewish heart .
This would make anyone crafty and cruel , capable of fiendish revenge .
There is no justification for such misrepresentation .
If living Jews were unavailable for study , the Bible was at hand .
the Old Testament would have shown the dramatist that the ideas attributed to Shylock were abhorrent to the Jews .
Are we better off for having Shakespeare 's idea of Shylock ? ?
The Merchant Of Venice in high school and college has given many young people their notions about Jews .
Does this help the non-Jew to understand this group ? ?
Thomas De Torquemada , Inquisitor-General of the Spanish Inquisition , put many persons to death .
His name became synonymous with cold-blooded cruelty .
Would we gain by keeping alive his memory and besmirching today 's Roman Catholics by saying he had a Catholic heart ? ?
Let his bones and his memory rest in the fifteenth century where they belong ; ; he is out of place in our times .
Shakespeare 's Shylock , too , is of dubious value in the modern world .
Ideas , in and of themselves , are not necessarily the greatest good .
A successful businessman recently prefaced his address to a luncheon group with the statement that all economists should be sent to the hospitals for the mentally deranged where they and their theories might rot together .
Will his words come to be treasured and quoted through the years ? ?
we are given assurance that automatically all ideas will be sifted and resifted and in the end only the good ones will survive .
But is that not like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids and powders from an array of bottles and then , after stirring , expecting a new wonder drug inevitably to result ? ?
What of the efficiency of this natural instrument of free discussion ? ?
Is there some magic in it that assures results ? ?
Peter B. Kyne ( Pride Of Palomar , 43 ) informed us in 1921 that we had an instinctive dislike for the Japanese , did the heated debates of the Californians settle the truth or falsity of the proposition ? ?
The Leopard 's Spots came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902 , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
If a child had a single drop of Negro blood , he would revert to the ancestral line which , except as slaves under a superior race , had not made one step of progress in 3,000 years .
That doctrine has been accepted by many , but has it produced good results ? ?
the same vein , a certain short-story plot has been overworked .
The son and heir of a prominent family marries a girl who has tell-tale shadows on the half-moons of her finger nails .
time she presents her aristocratic husband with a coal-black child .
Is the world better for having this idea thrust upon it ? ?
Will argument and debate decide its truth or falsity ? ?
answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists , the biologists , the historians , the psychologists , and the sociologists .
Long ago they consigned the notions of Kyne and Dixon to the scrap heap .
False ideas surfeit another sector of our life .
For several generations much fiction has appeared dealing with the steprelationship .
The stepmother , almost without exception , has been presented as a cruel ogress .
Children , conditioned by this mistaken notion , have feared stepmothers , while adults , by their antagonistic attitudes , have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one .
Debate is not likely to resolve the tensions and make the lot of the stepchild a happier one .
Research , on the other hand , has shown many stepmothers to be eminently successful , some far better than the real mothers .
Helen Deutsch informed us ( The Psychology Of Women , Vol. 2 , , 434 ) that in all cultures `` the term ' stepmother ' automatically evokes deprecatory implications '' , a conclusion accepted by many .
Will mere debate on that proposition , even though it be free and untrammeled , remove the dross and leave a residue of refined gold ? ?
That is questionable , to say the least .
Research into several cultures has proven her position to be a mistaken one .
ideas are invaluable .
But ideas , just for the sake of having them , are not enough .
In the 1930 's , cures for the depression literally flooded Washington .
For a time the President received hundreds of them every day , most of them worthless .
Ideas need to be tested , and not merely by argument and debate .
When some question arises in the medical field concerning cancer , for instance , we do not turn to free and open discussion as in a political campaign .
We have recourse to the scientifically-trained specialist in the laboratory .
The merits of the Salk anti-polio vaccine were not established on the forensic platform or in newspaper editorials , but in the laboratory and by tests in the field on thousands of children .
Our presidential campaigns provide much debate and argument .
the result new barnsful of tested knowledge on the basis of which we can with confidence solve our domestic and international problems ? ?
Man , we are told , is endowed with reason and is capable of distinguishing good from bad .
But what a super-Herculean task it is to winnow anything of value from the mud-beplastered arguments used so freely , particularly since such common use is made of cliches and stereotypes , in themselves declarations of intellectual bankruptcy .
We are reminded , however , that freedom of thought and discussion , the unfettered exchange of ideas , is basic under our form of government .
our political campaigns there is freedom to think , to examine any and all issues , and to speak without restraint .
No holds are barred .
But have the results been heartening ? ?
May we state with confidence that in such an exhibition a republic will find its greatest security ? ?
We must not forget , to be sure , that free discussion and debate have produced beneficial results .
In truth , we can say that this broke the power of Senator Joseph McCarthy , who was finally exposed in full light to the American people .
If he had been `` liquidated '' in some way , he would have become a martyr , a rallying point for people who shared his ideas .
Debate in the political arena can be productive of good .
But it is a clumsy and wasteful process : it can produce negative results but not much that is positive .
Debate rid us of McCarthy but did not give us much that is positive .
It did something to clear the ground , but it erected no striking new structure ; ; it did not even provide the architect 's plan for anything new .
the field of the natural sciences , scientifically verified data are quite readily available and any discussion can be shortened with good results .
In the field of the social sciences a considerable fund of tested knowledge has been accumulated that can be used to good advantage .
no means would we discourage the production of ideas : they provide raw materials with which to work ; ; they provide stimulations that lead to further production .
We would establish no censorship .
recollection he has said : `` Natural or man-made objects kept coming into my head , but I would suppress them sternly '' .
Moreover , he organized the movement of his forms , within his rigorously shaped space , into highly complex equilibriums ; ; and used gradations of color value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors .
The worthy Mondrian , seeing these pictures , said in a tone of kindly reproof : `` But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition '' ! !
Helion did not realize it at the time , but it was true .
His `` monumental '' abstraction , made up of smooth , metallic `` non-objects '' acting upon each other with great tension , won Helion much acclaim during the 'thirties .
The play of novel lighting effects also entered into these compositions , whose controlled power and varied activity made them well worth meditating .
Helion 's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; ; but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave him their blessing .
His canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be `` Figures In Space '' , or `` Blue Figure '' , or `` Pink Figure '' ; ; and they had ( vaguely ) heads and feet .
Exhibited in shows in London in 1935 , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
At this period the thirty-year old Helion was ranked `` as one of the mature leaders of the modern movement '' , according to Herbert Read , `` and in the direct line of descent from Cezanne , Seurat , Gris and Leger '' .
In America , Meyer Schapiro observed that , unlike the Mondrian school , Helion `` sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the framework of abstract art '' .
It is notable that at this time he was writing with admiration of Cimabue 's and Poussin 's way of filling space .
Abstract art was still the right path for him ; ; but , he held , instead of continuing as an `` art of reduction '' , it must grow , must make a place for the contributions of the Raphaels and Poussins as well as for those of the early cubists and Mondrian .
Helion wrote of this phase : `` For years I built for myself a subtle instrument of relationships -- colors and forms without a name .
I played on it my secret songs , unexplained , passionate and peaceful '' .
his own work was evolving further .
The extreme limitations he sensed in all current abstract art made that seem to him increasingly arid and cold .
He was engaged in constant experiments that searched for new directions .
Where would it all lead ? ?
He himself did not know , as he said in 1935 .
But he was `` afraid of the future -- he would in fact welcome a way back to social integration , a functional art of some kind '' .
the 1920 's the Abstractionists , the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers , and the new architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia , or welfare state , in which their neat and logical constructions might find their proper place .
But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem to Helion to be determined to `` escape '' from the real world , or simply to rebel against it , the ordered abstractions which he and his associates of the 1930 's were painting embodied the hope of `` improving '' things .
`` We were possessed by visions of a new civilization to come , very pure and elevated '' , he has said , `` in fact some ideal form of socialism such as we had dreamed of since the war of 1914-1918 '' .
this the 1930 's witnessed a tragic economic depression , the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe , the wasting Civil War in Spain .
Very much the political man , Helion felt himself deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of France and all Europe , whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky .
In 1936 he decided to migrate to America .
The Rooseveltian America was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute the last best hope for civilization .
Helion also hoped that America 's mastery of technology and industrial efficiency would be accompanied by the production of new and beautiful art works .
`` I arrived in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions '' .
New York he was well received by what was then only a small brave band of non-figurative artists , including Alexander Calder , George K.L. Morris , De Kooning , Holty and a few others .
After a year in a studio on Sheridan Square , having married an American girl who was a native of Virginia , Helion moved to a village in the Blue Ridge mountains , where he produced some of the most imposing of his abstract canvases .
The darkening world scene , at the time of the Munich Pact , continued to trouble his mind even in his remote Virginia studio .
`` Fear possessed me , and the certainty of war '' , he has related .
`` I truly smelled blood , death , heaps of corpses everywhere '' .
In haste he labored to finish some last abstract paintings : a three-panel frieze , with a flying figure and a fallen figure ; ; a `` Double-Figure '' , which went to the Chicago Art Institute , and is considered by him the most successful of his abstracts ; ; and in early 1939 , a `` Fallen Figure '' of very ominous character , which concluded his abstract phase .
`` I knew I was carrying on with abstraction to its very end -- for me '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
With those paintings of big constructions crashing down , he felt he could stop .
They were , in effect his last testament to non-objective art .
He had taken out first papers for American citizenship ; ; but after war came to Europe , he decided to return to France , arriving there in January , 1940 .
`` I hated the war '' , he said , `` but thought I ought to go because I was , perhaps , one of those who had n't done enough to prevent it '' .
June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him .
Its first apparition was a long , gloomy column of refugees riding in farm wagons , or pushing prams .
His company then carried out a confused retreating movement until it was surrounded by the Germans , a few days before France capitulated .
After a sort of death march during four days without food , Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp at an estate farm in East Germany .
A year later they were removed to a Stalag in the harbor of Stettin .
At the time of his capture Helion had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at Woolworth 's in New York .
When he was stripped , deloused and numbered by his guards , his much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners ' goods to be confiscated .
`` It was then I knew that they were making war against Man , the individual within ! !
-- who questioned things when given orders '' .
Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander .
In secret he also acted as a member of the prisoners ' Central Committee , which plotted sabotage , planned a few escapes , and maintained a hidden control over the wretched French slave-laborers .
the Stalag , Helion came to know and love his comrades , most of them plain folk , who , in their extremity , showed true courage and ran great risks to help each other .
How much they esteemed him is shown by the fact that their underground committee selected him as one of the few who would be helped to escape .
In the prison camp 's Black Market civilian clothes were quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him ; ; during long weeks the plan for his flight was rehearsed .
Every morning contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories .
One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there , a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work .
As Helion wrote afterward : `` Their sentry followed .
Four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me .
Marquet held my briefcase ; ; Finot held a wallet with my money and papers ; ; Moineau and David held nothing but their fingers .
They felt rough and kind and warm .
At this moment the volley-ball hit the ground .
Duclos ran toward Desprez with fists raised .
The guards all rushed up to intervene '' Shedding his prison cloak , Helion shot through the gates , now clad in civilian garments and with the passport of a Flemish worker .
Riding trains , hitching hikes on trucks across Germany , slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of secret guides , he eventually reached Vichy France , and , by the winter of 1943 , was back in Virginia .
He wrote : `` To escape from a prison camp required a very special state of mind ; ; not only loathing of captivity , but a faith , a hope that is even stronger .
I left behind me brave men , whom captivity had robbed of all hope .
They too loved their families , longed for their villages : yet lacked the faith that drove one to dare the fearful chance of escape '' .
It was a time of revelations for him .
Even the most rational of men , under great stress , may be transported by a new faith and behave like mystics .
Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando 13 , , Stettin , as to his own fierce will and love of life .
After that , he declared , `` to return to freedom was to fall to one 's knees before the real world and adore it '' .
In prison he had been able to sketch nothing but figures from life , his guards , his companions in misery .
Now all his desires centered on `` rediscovering and singing of the prosaic and yet beautiful world of men and objects so long barred from me by a barbed wire fence '' .
And , he added : `` During the many months in prison camp , all abstract images vanished from my mind '' .
America , he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to him his new resolutions .
Arp protested : `` But it is impossible ! !
Everything in the way of representation has already been done by the old masters '' .
Helion , however , clung to the belief that `` in escaping from the Stalag I had also escaped from Abstraction '' .
his Virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me Published originally in ( Helion 's ) English by Dutton & Co. of New York , in 1943 , the book was received by the press as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic accounts of World War 2 , from the French side .
It was very widely read , too ; ; and the author , who seemed the embodiment of France 's rising spirit of resistance to her conquerors , was much complimented for his daring military action .
he showed his new figurative pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp , they paid him no compliments and drew long faces .
1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris -- of his new realistic pictures .
They reincarnated the figures of human beings banished from his canvases since the 1920 's .
These new pictures focussed on the familiar and commonplace objects that he had heard the men in his prison camp talking about as the things they missed most , hence associated with the sense of lost freedom : the cafe at the corner , the newspaper kiosk , the girls in doorways and windows along the street , the golden-crusted French bread they lacked , the cigarettes denied them .
One of the pictures was of a man with hat drawn over his face ceremoniously lighting a cigarette ; ; others were of men doffing their hats to each other , carrying umbrellas with pomp , reading newspapers , or simply showing loaves of bread spread out .
Some years ago Julian Huxley proposed to an audience made up of members of the British Association for the Advancement of Science that `` man 's supernormal or extra-sensory faculties are ( now ) in the same case as were his mathematical faculties during the ice age '' .
As a Humanist , Dr. Huxley interests himself in the possibilities of human development , and one thing we can say about this suggestion , which comes from a leading zoologist , is that , so far as he is concerned , the scientific outlook places no rigid limitation upon the idea of future human evolution .
This text from Dr. Huxley is sometimes used by enthusiasts to indicate that they have the permission of the scientists to press the case for a wonderful unfoldment of psychic powers in human beings .
There may be a case of this sort , but it is not one we wish to argue , here .
Even if people do , in a not far distant future , begin to read one another 's minds , there will still be the question of whether what you find in another man 's mind is especially worth reading -- worth more , that is , than what you can read in good books .
Even if men eventually find themselves able to look through walls and around corners , one may question whether this will help them to live better lives .
There would be side-conclusions to be drawn , of course ; ; such capacities are impressive evidence pointing to a conception of the human being which does not appear in the accounts of biologists and organic evolutionists ; ; but the basic puzzles of existence would still be puzzling , and we should still have to work out the sort of problems we plan to discuss in this article .
All we want from Dr. Huxley 's statement is the feeling that this is an open world , in the view of the best scientific opinion , with practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next , and no important confinements with respect to what may be possible .
It seems quite obvious that all the really difficult tasks of human beings arise from the fact that man is not one , but many .
Each man , that is , is both one and many .
He is a dreamer of the good society with a plan to put into effect , and he is an individual craftsman with something to make for himself and the people of his time .
He is a parent with a child to nurture , here and now , and he is an educator who worries about the children half way round the world .
He is a utopian with a stake in tomorrow and he is a vulnerable human made captive by the circumstances of today .
He can sacrifice himself for tomorrow and he can sacrifice tomorrow for himself .
He is a Craig 's wife who agonizes about tobacco ash on the living room rug and he is a forgetful genius who goes boating with the town baker when dignitaries from the local university have come to call .
He is the stern guardian of the status quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age , and he is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic apologetic to posterity for the men he has killed .
What will be the final symmetry of the good society ? ?
For what do the utopians labor ? ?
Here , on a desk , is a stack of pamphlets representing the efforts of some of the best men of the day to penetrate these questions .
The pamphlets are about law , the corporation , forms of government , the idea of freedom , the defense of liberty , the various lethargies which overtake our major institutions , the gap between traditional social ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set in motion for their realization .
The thing that is notable in all these discussions is the lack of ideological ardor .
There is another kind of ardor , a quiet , sure devotion to the fundamental decencies of human life , but no angry utopian contentions .
Actually , you could wish for some passion , now and then , but when you look around the world and see the little volcanos of current history which partisan social passions have wrought , you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized calm .
You could also say that in these pamphlets is a relieving quality of maturity .
There is essential pleasantness in reading the writing of men who are not angry , who can contend without quarreling .
This is the good kind of sophistication , and with all our problems and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the United States during recent years .
A characteristic expression of such concern and inquiry is found in Joseph P. Lyford 's Introduction To The Agreeable Autocracies , a recent paperback study of the institutions of modern democratic society .
Mr. Lyford gives voice to a temper that represents , we think , an achieved plateau of reflective thinking .
After casting about for a way of describing this spirit , we decided that it would be better to use Mr. Lyford 's introduction as an illustration .
He begins : `` At one time it seemed as if the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations .
As things turned out , however , we have not profited greatly from the lesson : instead of persistently following a national program of our own we have often been satisfied to be against whatever Soviet policy seemed to be at the moment .
Such activity may or may not have irritated the Kremlin , but it has frequently condemned America to an unnatural defensiveness that has undermined our effort to give leadership to the free world .
The defensiveness has been exaggerated by another bad habit , our tendency to rate the `` goodness '' or `` badness '' of other nations by the extent to which they applaud the slogans we circulate about ourselves .
Since the slogans have little application to reality and are sanctimonious to boot , the applause is faint even in areas of the world where we should expect to find the greatest affection for free government .
Shocked at the response to our proclamations , we grow more defensive , and worse , we lose our sense of humor and proportion .
Mr. Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by our Department of State , and an American President observes sourly that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more capitalistic '' .
One thing you can say about Mr. Lyford is that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an American .
Those who are insecure fear to be candid in self-examination .
Only the strong look squarely at weakness .
The maturity in this point of view lies in its recognition that no basic problem is ever solved without being clearly understood .
Mr. Lyford continues : `` Even if the self portrait we distribute for popular consumption were accurate it would be dangerous to present it as a picture of the ideal society .
We would be ignoring the special circumstances of other countries .
The picture is the more treacherous when it misrepresents the facts of American life .
The discrepancy between what we commonly profess and what we practice or tolerate is great , and it does not escape the notice of others .
If our sincerity is granted , and it is granted , the discrepancy can only be explained by the fact that we have come to believe hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding gained by earnest self-examination .
What is more , the legends have become so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism smells of low treason , and men who practice it are defeatists and unpatriotic scoundrels .
we continue to pay our conversational devotions to `` free private enterprise '' , `` individual initiative '' , `` the democratic way '' , `` government of the people '' , `` competition of the marketplace '' , etc. , we live rather comfortably in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in large areas , bureaucracy is corroding representative government , technology is weakening the citizen 's confidence in his own power to make decisions , and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically into the ground '' .
The interesting thing about Mr. Lyford 's approach , and the approach of the contributors to The Agreeable Autocracies ( Oceana Publications , 1961 ) to the situation of American civilization , is that it is concerned with comprehending the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect on American life .
In an ideological argument , the participants tend to thump the table .
They are determined to prove something .
The new spirit , so well illustrated by Mr. Lyford 's work , is wholly free of this anxiety .
The problem is rather to find out what is actually happening , and this is especially difficult for the reason that `` we are busily being defended from a knowledge of the present , sometimes by the very agencies -- our educational system , our mass media , our statesmen -- on which we have had to rely most heavily for understanding of ourselves '' .
The Introduction continues : `` We experience a vague uneasiness about events , a suspicion that our political and economic institutions , like the genie in the bottle , have escaped confinement and that we have lost the power to recall them .
We feel uncomfortable at being bossed by a corporation or a union or a television set , but until we have some knowledge about these phenomena and what they are doing to us , we can hardly learn to control them .
It does not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles on The National Purpose .
The Agreeable Autocracies is an attempt to explore some of the institutions which both reflect and determine the character of the free society today .
The men who speculate on these institutions have , for the most part , come to at least one common conclusion : that many of the great enterprises and associations around which our democracy is formed are in themselves autocratic in nature , and possessed of power which can be used to frustrate the citizen who is trying to assert his individuality in the modern world '' .
These institutions which Mr. Lyford names `` agreeable autocracies '' -- where did they come from ? ?
Of one thing we can be sure : they were not sketched out by the revolutionary theorists of the eighteenth century who formulated the political principles and originally shaped the political institutions of what we term the `` free society '' .
No doubt there are historians who can explain to a great extent what happened to the plans and projects of the eighteenth century .
Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara .
But however we come , finally , to explain and account for the present , the truth we are trying to expose , right now , is that the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host of all their enterprises .
The host is the flowing life of the human race .
This life has its own currents and rhythms , its own multiple cycles and adaptations .
On occasion it produces extraordinary novelties .
Should Rousseau have been able to leave room in his social theory for the advent of television , atomic energy , and IBM machines ? ?
How would Thomas Jefferson feel after reading Factories In The Field ? ?
They tell us , sir , that we are free , because we have in one hand a ballot , and in the other a stock certificate .
With these we shape our destiny and own private property , and that , sir , makes ours the best of all possible societies .
The reality of the situation , however , is described by Mr. Lyford : `` Many of us may even be secretly relieved at having a plausible excuse to delegate ancient civic responsibilities to a new bureaucracy of experts .
Thus the member of an industrial union comes to regard his officers as business agents who may proceed without interference or recall ; ; the stockholder delivers his proxy ; ; and the citizen narrows his political participation to the mere act of voting -- if he votes at all '' .
contemporary literature is a major effort to counterbalance Existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to the tarnished image of the species Man , or , as Malraux himself puts it , `` to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves '' . 1 , Andre Malraux 's The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg was written in the early years of the second World War , during a period of enforced leisure when he was taken prisoner by the Germans after the fall of France .
The manuscript , presumably after being smuggled out of the country , was published in Switzerland in 1943 .
The work as it stands is not the entire book that Malraux wrote at that time -- it is only the first section of a three-part novel called La Lutte avec l'Ange ; ; and this first section was somehow preserved ( there are always these annoying little mysteries about the actual facts of Malraux 's life ) when the Gestapo destroyed the rest .
If we are to believe the list of titles printed in Malraux 's latest book , La Metamorphose Des Dieux , Vol. 1 ( ( 1957 ) , he is still engaged in writing a large novel under his original title .
But as he remarks in his preface to The Walnut Trees , `` a novel can hardly ever be rewritten '' , and `` when this one appears in its final form , the form of the first part will no doubt be radically changed '' .
Malraux pretends , perhaps with a trifle too self-conscious a modesty , that his fragmentary work will accordingly `` appeal only to the curiosity of bibliophiles '' and `` to connoisseurs of what might have been '' .
Even in its present form , however , the first part of Malraux 's unrecoverable novel is among the greatest works of mid-twentieth century literature ; ; and it should be far better known than it is .
The theme of The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is most closely related to its immediate predecessor in Malraux 's array of novels : Man 's Hope ( 1937 ) .
This magnificent but greatly underestimated book , which bodies forth the very form and pressure of its time as no other comparable creation , has suffered severely from having been written about an historical event -- the Spanish Civil War -- that is still capable of fanning the smoldering fires of old political feuds .
Even so apparently impartial a critic as W.H. Frohock has taken for granted that the book was originally intended as a piece of Loyalist propaganda ; ; and has then gone on to argue , with unimpeachable consistency , that all the obviously non-propagandistic aspects of the book are simply inadvertent `` contradictions '' .
Nothing , however , could be farther from the truth .
The whole purpose of Man 's Hope is to portray the tragic dialectic between means and ends inherent in all organized political violence -- and even when such violence is a necessary and legitimate self-defense of liberty , justice and human dignity .
Nowhere before in Malraux 's pages have we met such impassioned defenders of a `` quality of man '' which transcends the realm of politics and even the realm of action altogether -- both the action of Malraux 's early anarchist-adventurers like Perken and Garine , and the self-sacrificing action of dedicated Communists like Kyo Gisors and Katow in Man 's Fate .
`` Man engages only a small part of himself in an action '' says old Alvear the art-historian ; ; `` and the more the action claims to be total , the smaller is the part of man engaged '' .
These lines never cease to haunt the book amidst all the exaltations of combat , and to make an appeal for a larger and more elemental human community than one based on the brutal necessities of war .
It is this larger theme of the `` quality of man '' , a quality that transcends the ideological and flows into `` the human '' , which now forms the pulsating heart of Malraux 's artistic universe .
Malraux , to be sure , does not abandon the world of violence , combat and sudden death which has become his hallmark as a creative artist , and which is the only world , apparently , in which his imagination can flame into life .
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg includes not one war but two , and throws in a Turkish revolution along with some guerrilla fighting in the desert for good measure .
But while war still serves as a catalyst for the values that Malraux wishes to express , these values are no longer linked with the triumph or defeat of any cause -- whether that of an individual assertion of the will-to-power , or a collective attempt to escape from the humiliation of oppression -- as their necessary condition .
On the contrary , the frenzy and furor of combat is only the sombre foil against which the sudden illuminations of the human flash forth with the piercing radiance of a Caravaggio .
2 , The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is composed in the form of a triptych , with the two small side panels framing and enclosing the main central episode of the novel .