But the way , I do not like to stay alone .
On the other hand , people tend to wear natural clothes today , made of cotton , wool .
You should spend more money on buying clothes and food , you will very happy when you buy it , but , when you come back home take out you purse , you must be feel sad , you purse nearly empty , ( when you do n't have enough money . )
It is going to be very lovely and enjoyable because I have lots of surprises for students .
Mr White came to our school when he was 40 year-old but still well-looking and all my girls school-mates fell suddenly in love with him ; he was always so kind and generous towards his pupils that any girls felt herself loved by him : Pat certainly was one of them .
On the last day I go to your house and then we think about our 's conference plane .
I use internet now .
I 'm sorry I did n't write you before , but I was so busy with my exams .
The tower is absolutly marvelous .
I would like to ask , if you could expend the plays and films more for next year ?
I can play tennis quite well , but I have never played golf , so , if it is possible , I would like taking lessons with a teacher .
There , it is impossible for journalists to stop chasing them .
And I ca n't even think about how it would be not having a computer .
Pat was very frightened with this situation .
Photography is a very interesting activitie , and is not too hard to do too .
I play tennis since I was a child and I have won some competitions in my town so I think I play very well .
Tecnology improves our lives ,
I think this way is better to keep in touch with the nature .
There are some of the modern techonologys that most help me but there are some others which are also very important for me .
Since I have studied photography for several years , I would like to take some picture of beautiful scenaries in California .
We can love them without disturbing too .
As we are from the small town we do n't have any possibility to learn about this .
She was the head in this story .
I did a big mistake by trusting him .
From that time , I decided to buy my own computer and every day I was improving my knowledge .
The Marine 's real father want her back but the other cuples did n't want to give her because they loved Marine so much .
I look forward to receiving your satisfactory reply by return of post .
Other members of groups can wear a normal pretty formal dress .
Whereas an advertisement promised stars from around the world .
I will be very glad to partecipate to your camp !
They all knows where the conference is and when .
What are you going to do without phone ?
There are a lot of advantages for it .
I wish you were there .
I am glad I had taken a part in a few competitions , and I was so proud of our basketball team .
and then went away without listening the answer .
Lily was one of her best friend before three year .
Some times we have to have deal with not good service or for example could you imagine it on your way to shop you have met wrong people or someone told you bad news .
I would like to have my two weeks with you in July , as it will be during my summer holiday in addition that it is said to be the best season there .
The worst thing is that I could n't watch my favorite actor .
Last week , I went to London in your theatre to see " Over the rainbow " and I had a disappointing evening .
I have always wanted to spend my holidays in tent but my father has never given me the permission , and this would be an ideal opportunity for me to learn about camp life .
I 've received your letter two days ago and I 'm quite happy to know that you passed F.C.E.
And as regards breaks student consider them being a very important part of school life , despite all their mess and noise .
Both of them I am not as good as you expect , but recently I have been intrested in those .
That is really intresting .
it is very interesting , especially for the young people .
Than to technology we can reach any place in the world easily .
She was sended to New York to discover how some people from government gave money to the merchants because they want to build a Trade Center there .
Concerning the party we do not have a casual dressing code .
At 8 pm Metallica started and I have to tell you , they did a great performance .
It highlights the background history and considers the interest of young peoples , and makes a final recommendation .
And , I would appreciate if you give me a refund .
From small village to town was very long way becouse the people used horse and wagon .
I prefer to live in log cabin because I think it 's more comfortable .
For instance , when I want to contanct with to my friend , it 's quite helpful by using e-mail .
To sum up , although there is certainly a good side of shopping , such as pleasures of getting new stuff and spending money on something you really wanted for long time , you also have some unpleasant moments to get through .
Besides , I would prefer to stay in a tent since I have never had the exciting experience to sleep in the middle of the nature .
Peter and Sue asked to Francis some help for their exam 's subjets and Francis , for to help them , was very busy all the week .
And the last one is that do I need pillow or blanket or something else ?
This show is about the latest fashions , the leisure and sports wear , the make-up and the hairstyles .
I cried for days straight , eating and sleeping very little .
We organized a end-of-conference party on the day before your departure .
Finally , the TV is in my opinion very useful for getting important information , you can watching the weather and all of them were present in wonderful colour .
My holidays will finish in the begining of September and will be good to travel during this time .
It is difficult to say how good I can sing but I really like it and I think I am not too bad .
As for my ticket , I was expecting to get a discount as a student , as it said so in the advertisement , however , it was not actually available which was very disappointing again .
When you go out of the Hotel turn right and go stright on , at the first crossroads turn right again .
First of all , I would like to tell you that I 've never had a such good time in my life !
I wish you were there with us !
I have spent two days at the International Arts Festival recently and I am writing in order to give my opinions about it .
His message is still as impacting today and will always be even if this story happened a long time ago .
Another thing that happened was that the tickets did not have discount and the advertisement says the will have .
When I bought my computer , I was n't interested in it but when I started studying about internet and playing games , I found it interesting .
The trip that you planned for us , students , it 's a great chance to meet new people and visit a beautiful city like London .
Firstly , I would like to say that I 'm very glad to have been choosen and I will do my best for this competition .
Nowadays many people fond of classical music , but this concert was too small that 's why many people had to miss this classical concert .
Because I usually go on camping-site holiday , with my friends .
Dear Mr or Madam ,
Secondly , I would prefer to staying in a tent rather than staying in a log cabin in order to have experience , which I have n't had before .
How much money would like to pay me for five hours a day in two weeks working with children ?
I thank you in advanced and looking forward to your reply .
I enjoyed it very much and I think the idea of its creation is great .
- About the accomodation , as I read , you can offer me log cabins or tents .
Now , I able to use sound effect system .
Nowadays , mordern technology has increasingly been developing .
He had been replaced by a really bad actor , whom I do n't even know the name .
Fortunately , I have heard that weather is beautiful in California during that month .
Another problem I had was the time .
Another solution to get a friendlier service is of course to go to another shop .
As you know , there is a free time in your programme
How I am going to answer the questions you asked me in the letter .
However , we promised our perents to make cleaning up every week .
Of course I will give you some more detail about the student conference .
For me , It 's not easy to have holiday and your play just blew my precious time away .
Personally I do n't like dealing with shop assistants and looking around the shops , so I buy all what I can using " on-line " services .
Thus , I think that journalists should consider celebrities ' lives and be in celebrities ' shoes .
Just follow Main-Road until to reach a junction , where you turn right and then walk along Denl-a-Lion Road .
Unfortunately , Pat was n't very good at keeping secrets , so Maria was very disappointed when she realised that Manuel knew the truth about the feelings that Maria had for him , in fact , she was so angry she almost kill but , she could n't because Pat was her best friend .
I ask you if is it possible to have my money back , please , because I want to forgot that expense .
My second chose is painting because I love water colour painting and I am a member of the our water colour painting club in my town .
At first the show started much later than it was written out .
At the end you may have found only two or three things you really like , but they are all the work worth .
So I decided to write you this letter to note that wrong informations and to ask for the restitution of the price of ticket or a part of that .
From my point of view , young people tend to wear the clothes which they can show their skin .
You do n't have to wait on a bus stop on a cold and windy weather for a late bus , or being stuck on a train for an hour due to some railtrack repairs , you can just jump into a car , tune your radio onto your favourite station and have a plesant drive to your distanation .
Let me answer this question .
At first , I want to say how I am happy to have won this prize and I want to thank you .
i 'm hope that it will be good gift for me from your organization .
If there is any other question from your part , please call me or write again .
Taking a photography during the holiday is very good memory for me , and I can share my adventures to my friends .
After all of this we saw the show in the best place , near of the stage and after , the thing that I most liked , we were convidated to see the group and had their signatures .
Whenever the students wear an extra cloth ( because of cold or something ) his or her ( not students ! )
If there is any question left , please contact me .
I am writing on our class behalf to thank you for organising our tour in London .
This trip was organised by our form tutor , he wanted to test us if we trust each other and worked in a team , and the trip last for 3 days .
I think then we should film an informatic-lesson .
From my point of view , people 's home in the future will be controlled by a computer which is devised in every machine , TV , cooker and the light , connecting to the owner .
From the activities I want to take Golf and Surfing .
I received your letter , so I write you to give you some informations from me .
It had been a real joy to receive your and I still ca n't believe it .
However , people ca n't have a good time even at weekdays while shopping .
I am really surprise for the information because I won , and I like to tell you thank you for everyting
And on Wednesday morning we go to the national art gallery , but after that we can go to the Science Museum , in the afternoon .
We have thought that The London Fashion and Leisure Show would be a great opportunity to give us more information about the main transformation in nowdays in England about fashions , Leisure , sports and style of life .
In other hand , after shopping you 'll get tired and maybe you ca n't afford your credit card .
quality of life very low .
The moment I saw the advertisement about one of the seven world wonders , I knew , I had to see it .
The car was already parked near the rear door and there was an unusual activity all over the house .
Some people glorify technology as if it was the best thing could ever happened in their lives .
And please could you give me details about how does the weather like there and what type the clothes will I have to bringh ?
If no , what do you sugest ?
So I would like to choose these two activities while I am at the Camp .
But I enjoy discovering new activities !
On top of everything , the main cast , Danny Brook , did not appear on the show .
I had a week holiday in London , so I wanted to spend my last evening with great pleasure , however it was the worse evening in my life .
Countless fascinating things will definely take you the whole day to appreciate .
On the other hand , we can feel more comfortable with them providing us support to our hard tasks and letting us free to apply our attention and efforts to more important things .
Some concert halls were really small so that there was bad air and not enough place for everyone and you could not enjoy anything !
I think that this kind of people have a poor life because they never can be quiet because all the poeple know them and want to know a lot of things about them .
As you offer many activities it was hard to choose which ones I want to do , but I dicided to take swimming and photography , because I am very good at swimming and because currently I am attending a photography course in Vienna .
After that what is waiting for you is the struggle with ill-fitted clothes taking off and putting on .
Contrary to the advertisment everything was disapointing .
Just imagine the way of future people 's life .
It began 45 minutes later than it should have been .
In my countries school we are not allowed to have an argument with class-mates and not allowed to eat at class .
Finally , I would like to ask you what kind of clothes would you recommend me to take .
Besides , I really would like to know , approxiametely how much money should I take with me ?
Immediately she recognized her beloved teacher kissing one of her class mate and she run away as fast as she could .
I 'd rather sleep in tents because I want to enjoy this wild experience !
And the restorant of the theatre was being pait , so I could not go as you said in the advertisment .
So that 's why they have invented a telephon .
At that point , even if there had been Danny Brook as the advertisement announced , it would n't have been a less disappointing evening .
I am sure you can take attention on this .
Last of all , it said in your advertisement that there is a theatre restaurant after the show but it turned out to be closed because it was redecorating and no annocement was made .
Finally , I am considering about what kind of clothes I should wear and how much I need .
About the acommodation , out of the two possibilities , I choose sleeping in a tent , because I think that a log cabin is n't as authentic as a tent , at the camp .
Firstly , I expected to see the play by Danny Brook who is my favourite actor .
It is a very cosy building that is on the same avenue as the conference building , approximetively one mile away .
It 's connected with our house , our workplace and e.t.c .
On the tale " It 's a good life " , the author gives much more emphasis to the Witte Anthony than to anyone else in the story .
Seeing that this is the first year of the drama lessons , it is not very well known .
I would like to change the rule not to speak in Spanish at school because most of us feel more comfortable speaking in Spanish but I guess to learn .
Then you could find the cheapest good and in that case , you probably buy it needlessly .
Because of it I believe it is the best date for travel You asked me about accommodations or Camp California .
The first thing that dissapoint me was the starring .
So I was suspended , I had a fight with one of my best friend , all because she was n't very good at keeping secrets .
After having thought about this video and asked different people so as to know what they suggested , I reached the following conclusions : we must film the lessons which are the most important and the activities which take a great part in a day at school ; this being in three parts .
I 've asked my mom and my friends and everybody did n't know where it was .
Well , the two activities that I would to choose are basketball and singing .
Thank you in advanced for your comprehention and we look forward to hearing for you .
if we used , we would be sent to the head office of the school .
Do you know what Kim , I 've never thought before , that enjoying yourself like this , could be weirdly .
It also makes me write to my friends by e-mail .
And is it better to have change or checks ?
I could n't write you because I was very busy .
I can hardly await your reply !
AFTER THE MEETING WE RECIEVED ALL THE SAME CLOTHES .
I would like to spend my time at your Camp site in log cabins .
, What is your name , house , dog , cat , boy , girls etc , I am very happy that I promed to myself learn spanish this sommar at the Huntingdon College .
At first my favourite actor Danny Brook did n't perform without any explictions , and the show should started at 19:30 instead of 20:15 !!
I ca n't stand wearing a suit or kit like which has been showed in Starwars !
In my opinion we must spend more time for more interesting than shopping things like sport , reading , chating about ideas which make our lives better .
I can play well basketball , because I use to practice basketball , when I go to the club every Saturday .
Finally , I think it was a good idea the fact to buy only one ticket for all the events since I just spent the time watching and enjoying all of them .
However , the technology never stops , we always search new things because we are made to compete , discover , think things which we do n't know .
I had gone to the show which according to the advertisement was supposed to begin at 19:30 , but the show did not start until 20:15 .
Now I will give you the informations which you asked for .
You should back my money immedeastry because that night was far from parfect .
First of al , in my opinion , TV has a great education functions , and also makes the world become small .
this lesson techer you how to organise what you want to write .
First time , when I saw the advertisement on the newspaper , I really appreciated .
In the addition when you organize the next year 's international arts festival , could you arrange more plays and films .
But after all the party was great .
In fact queuing up in front of every ticket office is wasting time .
After entering you will see the signed conference room .
Firstly , I would like to inform that I prefer travelling in July to travelling in another month .
Personally , I do think televisions is the most important invention .
Suddenly , I heard of " help , help " in my distance .
You can walk to the top of the tower and it shows you a beautiful view .
Fortunately today everyone can take an aeroplane and go to America , Australia or wherever else he wants !
I never did Surfing in my life but I am a very good Snowboarder and this could be an advantage .
" Um very unpleased that I have to write you this letter .
One of my favourite books is without doubts , Wuthering Heights a famous book written by Emily Bront├½ .
First of all , I was surpprising that Danny Brook and Tina Truelove did not played .
When shopping , we do n't need to wait the Kasse to take every article 's note by hand .
In the big room where we 'll have the party , it 'll be some picturs of our college ,
In fact if I 'm not in the right mood I become nervous because I ca n't find anything .
Even if the photograph made are modest work , I am really interested in this activity .
We had been told that discounts to the ticket-prices were possible but at the evening of the show no discounts or special offers whatsoever were offered .
I was part of the staff ,
Why is it every thing that on the canidates were wrong and different what we had .
First of all , everybody has rights to keep their own private life , especially when they are in serious situations such as divorce and a family member 's or the closest friend 's death .
And also , it was written that the discounts were available but they were not .
Last weekend , I have been in London with my friend and I saw your musical show " over the Rainbow " .
To begin my complains I can start with the actor - was a different one , not Danny Brook .
As soon as the arrangement for the party started , she began to feel nervous and anxious because she wanted to tell everything to her bestfriend .
So I think you 'd better to wear a dress .
In conclusion , do n't forget that a job is just spent in your " spare " time .
Which kind of clothes have I to put in my case ?
I am writing to you to give some requiered information .
That 's why I 'd like to feel adventurally .
Usually if you ask them what they would desire most , the answer is : " I would like to be able to live like ordinary people do "
Thank you for the letter that conformed first prize .
You 'll be agree with me that 45 minutes to waiting for the starting of the show is a too long time .
About accomodation in tents or log cabins , I would enjoy much more being in tents as I believe is the right type of accomodation for going camping ?
It means on second day of our trip and it starts at 10.00 in the morning untill 19.00 .
Therefor I would n't change anything in my home life and neither in my school life .
Technology brings me a lot of new possibilities every day , and it also makes everything easier .
The technology is the future , and the present .
I also would like to remark that this change does not increment the cost of the trip , because the London Fashion And Leisure Show is free for students .
My second task was that I had to look in all the bags of the fans to collect " dangerous " items , I saw really funny things like teeth-bruches in the bags .
Thank you very much and I hope hearing from you soon .
Finally , I give you some suggestions which could spend for about 3 hours in the national museum in my area .
Machines , such as a dish washer , laundry machine and remote controller help us jut to relax or do a little work necessary .
First of al , I want to thank you for the interesting programme , which you already have organised .
Suddenly , she heart a men voice called her " Sara ... Sara . look down to the river . "
If you are used to go to the Shopping very often , maybe is because you do n't know about all the others good things you can do on your weekend .
The uniform , we are wearing has to be perfect .
Firstly , the actors were different from the ones written in the advertisement which was very disappointing for me .
First , I expected to see Danny Brook but a different actor appeared without any explanation .
After all this , I want to know if I will have some money back .
Another bad thing is that people want something very badly , and they ca n't afford it .
We would like our money back please because every thing gone wrong , the atmosphere totally chanced !
I was so exited and happy that I ca n't remember what I talked with the band .
First of all , the performers should be Danny Brook and Tina Truelove .
You should be punctual when coming to dining table , respectful , do your home works and watch TV less and not too loud .
If you say that the wage is far from satisfaction , why do n't you teach younger students as a private teacher .
We would be very interesting in seeing the english fashion .
If you leave the bus , the conference is in the house opposite the road .
However , I have been asked by the class to propose you another visit .
And thanks again for offer me two weeks at Camp California in the U.S.A.
I tried to play the drums but I was expelled from the stage by a member of the group who was in a bad mood .
She spent this only for a magazin .
I helped setting up the sound equipment , programming the light system on the computer , tidy up Madonna 's room !
During my recent holiday in London I visited one of your shows in the " Circle Theatre " .
Firstly , the material of which clothes are made has a wide range .
Because , althoug they are famous they have also their private life .
After the show I went the ' theatre restaurant ' to have dinner , but the restaurant was closed .
Thank you for your letter , like usual , it 's a pleisure to receive a word from you .
The advertisement outside the theatre explained a lot of interesting things to enjoy .
In the advertisement , you mentioned actors , time , price discount and equipment .
If you need any information , please let me know .
However , it closed because it was being decorated .
I also helped to serve people who would like drink ,
Would you give me some pocket-money during the trip .
i whant to know some questions about it .
I phoned to police And told the whole story .
I prefer to stay in log cabins than in tentes , because log cabins has much esctructure , that I need to stay for a few days .
The dance shows made sight for our sour eyes ,
At the end all depends in our attitud to life , including shopping .
Molly , Vance and Sally had a quick chat and said good-bye to each other as , to Molly , they seemed to be in a hurry and as Molly knew that they have been dating , she wanted them to enjoy their own time .
Can you imagine the new your house ?
I hope that after jully wo n't disturb the Camp California 's plans for me .
Functions ' clothes are the way to love animals !
We are all very interested in the show because England people have a different kind of life .
Internet is very handy , you can buy , send e-mail messages , or even have sex , that is really funny .
Every one hopes to enjoying himself and comes back with a lot of knowledge .
So we suggest to put it this way on Tuesday 14 , in the morning go to the Science Museum and instead of shopping , we could attend the London Fashion show , because will be the latest fashion , leisure and sports wear , make up , and hair styles , and as you know us , we love all those topics , and it 's a great opportunity while we are London .
I learned swimming at my age of 8 for 5 years and I still love swimming .
Then , we have to be as best secret keepers as possible , or we will end like Ali and Pat .
The church is located on a place where you see the whole mountain chain of Rigi .
If you 're tire , the pill can give you vitamin , protein and make you refresh
I have just received your letter telling me I have won the first prize in your competition , and I am glad for it .
I would like to know which sort of clothes we have to take with us and also how much money is necessary .
Another point is now you do n't need to go out just for shopping .
I spent two days at the International Arts Festival you have organized .
When finally the show had started I found out that Danny Brook was replaced by another actor .
Plays and films qualities were good , but quantities were bad .
About accomodation I would prefer cabins , because I suffer alergic , and I think tend , would be not very suitable for my health .
I 'm writting you because I wanted to tell you what a bad experience I had during my holidays when I went to see the play on your theatre .
We can see the latest fashions , leisure and sports wear , make up , and hairstyles which we will learn next term .
The two activities that I prefer will be Basketball , because I had the experience to play in my school 's big for almoust a year , and Photography , which is a hobby that I am good at and I practice since I was ten .
I believe there are lot of why to enjoy shopping .
The restaurant was closed because there was n't electricity
In August , I have already made another appointment with my friends .
They look like a robotes who have to do their duties - to buy .
I 'm used to be the photographer at the holidays with my family and I know how a camera works .
In fact , I did .
I ca n't believe she said that , I was at the Maria 's party and 'cause of my distraction , I said Pat that I had lost the Jon 's shirt .
That show takes place on 14th March from 10.00 - 19.00 .
First off all I 'll prefer to travel in July , because it is the only month I have free .
The only effect on me is more often disagreements with my parents .
I would also like to thank you for the good programme you made for us , especially the river trip to Greenwich might be fascinating .
Recently , I had a week 's holiday in London and during my stay , I went to your theatre to see " Over The Rainbow " and I was really disillusioned .
Peter got very angry and told Pat why did they say that to him .
Then , I discovered some points and I am writing to express my suggestion and recommendations .
We have had a quite pleasant time except the evening .
And we have two choices to get to the conference , a bus or a train .
A few days before , I had founded a little window at the back of the building , so I entered by this way and by chance I just arrived in the monney 's room .
Pat and Ted , had always competition , and Ted used to be the best , he never had failed and people in general constums to like more Ted , I do n't now why .
My wife and me went to The Circle Theatre last Saturday evening because we love the main actor , Danny Brook .
I would like to stay in log cabins because I have bad experiens about tents .
This is very nice when you can do your shopping like that .
Everyone has is own style but it 's obvious that many of us is wearing the same clothes like others .
I think it was definitely not a perfect evening as garenteed in your advertisement .
In addition to this some concert halls were too small to host all the people who were there fro the occasion and , personally speaking the show could be done at the open air next year , so that music would also create a fantastic atmosphere all around .
Thank you for your letter of asking for my help to the conference .
However , it would not have been such a great problem if the show on the proved to be as good as they promised but it really was not worth seeing , especially because the first actor was not Danny Brook as we expected but an unknown , clearly an inexperienced young actor , named Tom Douglas .
I am writing to give my opinion about the International Arts Festival which was held 21st and 22nd November .
( that was n't easy to decide which activities I will do , cause almost choice interested me )
i 'd prefer take a tent because it is more romantic and exciting spend nights in the tent .
Because you have to visit many shops and see many thing .
I was pleased as I got it .
But the best thing that we do , when we make shopp is spend the time having lunch at snack bar , watching cinema and play games computer .
One day , we were sitting in the dinning-hall like usually .
It must be very exhausted to have the medias around you days and nights because you ca n't be yourself , you have to show your best side and character .
I think the students will enjoy this sightseeing .
To have a private life is the natural desire of everyone and the famous film stars or politicians have a right for it .
You will ca n't believe how many famous people I known .
I kept asking myself ' should I wake him up or try to use my unsure first aid skill to deal with him .
I would like to know only in July because I have set my holidays this month since last January .
For example , put the music too hight when my syster is working .
I am very good at tennis and photography but I would prefer to practice new ones , if it is possible .
Finaly , I 'd like to practice tennis and to try climbing .
It contains lots of archeological Etruscans founded and some remains about Etruscans neoropolis .
I can pay my bills at any time and do not need to wait on a big queue to be attended by the cashman , I can exchange photos and videos via computer , I can do business and make money at home , and so on .
As I was so looking foreward to seeing Danny 's stage , I was very disappointed .
Also I like to play tennis , which is beautiful " game " itself and good for figure .
First of all I have to say that the whole festival was a greatful success and I also think you chose an appropriate title for the leaflet .
I am writing to answer about your invitation which I have receved as a first winner .
After the show , my friends and me decided to go to your restaurant , but we were amazed to find it close .
It takes 25 minutes that is convenient to us .
I was training to be a personal assistance to Madonna herself .
Another way our home could be different in the future is probably the utilitles we are using .
I never did surfing , but every time I see surfing on television I find this magic .
I think this side of the question is balanced because before effect on our health was less than it is now .
Write me back soon and tell me about your impression ( I mean if you enjoyed the story or not ! )
And how much money I am going to need to have there with me ?
We like to go on July , because my wife Catrin just have holidays next month .
In the other hand , I can not sing very well but I would like to do this there .
I have received your letter which is make me happy .
I am look forward to hearing from you
Every day , the growth of the modern technology increases in the whole world and it is becoming essential in everybody 's life .
In my daily life I can save time , but I think every body should use his saved time for things like hiking , walking , swimming , for a " natural life " and not for a life in a technical world with stress and sorrows because we are humans and not robots .
I 'm excited to go on holliday there and thanks to you , I will realize a dream that I always wanted to do .
I 'll tell you two activities I chose .
It has abosolutly reduced women 's our house working time .
We do n't have old-traditioned rules or something alike .
Last week I spent my holiday in London and I 've seen your musical " Over the rainbow ' in the Circle Theatre and I was really disappointed .
Answering on our first question about where would I prefer to sleep , I prefer tents because it is closer to nature and I like sleepping in sleepping bags ( = BV bags ) .
I know you have a good taste in presents !
So all the fashion industry will work to make clothes more useful , practical and comfortable .
In reference about the date of the travel , I would like to travel in July because at the moment I am working at the University and I only have July to take my holidays .
I 'm sure that if you listen to it you will start reading the book immediately , and find out there many challenges for your new carreer .
Also , due to global warming , sea levels might rise and risk of flooding will also rise .
Modern technology has changed a lot our daily life .
So I would like to travel on July .
It was the only disappointment during my holiday in London , since several points did n't worked out as promised in your advertisement .
First of all , I congratulate you on making this kind of event .
The activities are quite hard to choose really , because you have a lot of chose which is I like .
Because human high wo n't change so much , unless 10000 years passed .
After I waited for about 45 minutes the show suddenly started but I had to realize that the main actor Danny Brook , who was the reason why I went into the show had been traded by an other actor , who could n't sing as half as good then Brook .
That was a pop concert with lots of famous singers like Madona , Julio Iglesias , and people like them
I decided to go to see this show because of its starrings , but at the day I saw it , a different actor played .
I 've just helped for staff .
What are you dong today , how is your school ?
Or would be our house itself alive ?
Finally , I am writing to request a full-refund for my friends and I , because I felt your advertisement was misleading .
But last week we have seen an advertisement for the London Fashion and Leisure Show .
I was very please to receive your letter .
They have everything they want very easily and it is not good for their future .
Everyone likes sale , but those so-called sale items are not really of value .
But this was also the moment when my nightmare started to come alive .
However , we would like to suggest you something :
Before that you have to think why you need to earn money and how you do that .
Suddenly , my father realised he forgot to close the car .
After , student is making speech about what he or she have learned .
And is it also allowed to bring my dog with ?
Well , I 'm also bothered about what 's going on around me but why did you forget about newspapers ?
According to your advertisement , it stars Danny Brook and Tina Truelove , but surprisinggly , it was proformed by a different actor who I even did n't know the name .
First of all , I would like to travel in July because I can apply my holiday only in July .
However , I manage to listen the music and I must admit that I liked it .
I would be choose a month July , because I 'm free in this time from family 's duties .
What made things even worse was that the leading actor Danny Brook did not appear at the stage at all .
You advertised for my perfect evening out .
I was starting trainning since 1996 , and I have never give it up .
He cured the bird to fly with love , and the bird was able to fly .
In my home , the only things I am not allowed to do are things which can disturbe my familly .
It was about Marine , who was our clase friends .
Firstly , Palace Hotel has been booked into for the group accomodation and I spoke with the hotel manager for traveling to the conference .
You ask me for some informations - here they are .
We regard that the show might be great opportunity for the most of us who are interested in fashion and leisure .
Bye and think on this .
houses only will be more moderne and more practique but not very different from our home in the present .
But they do n't consider the problems the romours may bring to the famous family or couple .
I just 15 years old .
But on the other hand , technology 's products are sometimes cheap and I ca n't afford it .
therefore , I would suggest going to the frogs museum which is really fashinating .
Modern technology has brought many discoveries which have made our daily lives much easier .
Pat and Scala have been good friends for 10 years , their husband too .
By problems I mean , that the show started at 20.15 and not at 19:30 or why were no discounts avaivable ?
Secondly , I suppose the show will start at 19:30 , but it started t 20:15 .
Sometime I stay alone all the day but I have contacts with many people .
Anyway , what you wanted to know was what has been my job .
It is a dream becames true and was really unexpected for me !
What a fool was I .
I am very happy for the news .
- Some sequences of the gym-lesson should conclude the part of the film showing the children at work , but there should follow another short part that presents how children have their lunch and spend their free-time , what games they play in the school-yard and how they have contact with each other .
Maria was nervous , but for the first time , she could talk to him as she never did before , and at the end of the day , she was the happiest person of the world , she gave her first kiss and she had Pat 's friendship back , after all , everything happened because of her .
Furthermore , this party would be in your hotel like the following years .
I 'm very keen on photography , especially while I 'm staying in Sates .
Two days ago her best friend Maria told her that her parents were going to devorce , Maria was so upset that she could n't keep it herself .
It is more confortable and I am afraid about wild animals .
I have already , saw others versions of this musical and Danny Brook is a bad actor , who ended with the musical .
In the conclusion of my report I would like to say that the suggestions were made according to the survey made among the students of our school .
At the end of the conference there will be reseption at the hotel .
I would like to travel in July because I have got summer holidays from July to August and I work as a bank clerk in August .
It was very well organised , the shows started in the exactly time and the group were well performed too .
We can need our imagination for answering these questions but we will never know the right answer .
In fact I have been playing the piano for children 's choir for 5 years .
it is fantastic .
just as example , internet gets hundreds of new users every single day .
I just had no possibility to meet them after school , because I had no vehicle to get there .
I stood up in front of audiences and I had given an attention to them .
What are you mistaken us for , Mr Smith ?
In addition to these , I can contact to anyone who I want to talk at any convenient time in case I need him or her , or I am needed .
Firstly , it 's written that it will be played by Danny Brook , but in fact it was n't .
Firstly , I want to say it is a great idea to have this international arts festival ,
The next day Mr White was charged for abuses and obliged to resign .
Secondly , I will like to tell you that I can only travel in July because in June I have to take my final exams at school .
It means buying whatever we like , just like clothes , records , rings , and books .
I never stayed out after dark today except accompanying by my family .
Of course , I could listen to all their music which were so cool .
You choose Larry , but I thought that I was your best friend . "
The place we worked was a football pitch ; we spent 3 days on setting up the stage , the equitment , and the lights .
Another point is that the discounts was n't available although I could red it before at your notice .
How could you change the actors without saying something to the visitors .
According to all this , what was supposed to be one of my best nights turned out to be definatly one of the worsts .
Some people are in a hurry other are agressive and most of the other are very stressed .
I am not very good painting , but I like it because is a good oportunity to practice it .
infact all the viewers where very dissappointed .
That is the question , which many people ask themselves and other people quite often .
Pat was not a very clever teen-ager and while she was attending the Secondary School she had many troubles with Chemistry .
And checking his body condition .
I am writing to give you my details and ask some more information .
I hope I 've answered all you questions and I would be please if mine could also be answered .
Then , the show started t 20.15 pm instead of 19.30 .
When he come back home , he was surprise because Maria was more angry than before .
It is a show about latest fashions , leisure and sports wear , make up and hairstyles .
The second one is more a hobby .
Have you ever thought about a world without phone ?
But the most important things to enjoy shopping is not to use every money which you have .
I was really happy when your letter arrived and I node that I won the first prize in your competition .
We live in a small and old fashioned town and Mr. White was considered a monster : loosing his job was hard for him , but even harder was the loss of his beloved pupils who were not allowed to meet him ; so , on a bright summer day he took his final decision and died terrified by the darkness which was nearing .
One of them was about her boss ' private life : he had got illegal son .
When the light was turned on again , I realised how important even a single light bulb would be , and I was sure I can never , ever live without it .
" X " is the musician who sang songs at a pop concert .
I really enjoyed it because I learnt a lot of tecnical things I did n't know ; and what I also enjoyed was the good pay !
A different actor acted in stead of him .
Then I had pleasure listening to your variety of concerts .
They gona show a latest fashion , leisure and sports wear , make up and new hairstyles .
On 5th of May which was national holiday in Japan , I had a part-time work at a pop concert in the Tokyo Dome .
Despite this shopping culture , shopping is not always enjoyable ,
I am really proud to be the winner of your competition and I would like to express my satisfaction for your perfect organisation .
How has modern technology change your daily life ?
It is really good programme , especially visiting Science Museum and National Art Gallery would be great opportunity to learn about art and latest improvements in science .
The cities are the main commercial centre , our streets are full of billboard advertising many things and .
She told to Pat that she did n't want other people know it except her .
It is popular by the students .
She then gives letters to her husband 's lawyer that seem to prove that she has been unfaithful to him and that she tries to get rid of him with the help of false accusations .
What else , unless they pass the exam they have to get extra lesson or test .
Secondly , I would like to stay in tents because I like camping a lot and I do it whenever I can .
I am good diffender .
Which was unbelievably great and also to be able to meet these famous singers made me realise we can achieve whatever we want .
I have been swimming for 8 years for a club and enjoying a lot .
Then , I suddenly realised that I had no choice , so I took all my courage , a big deep breath , and crossed it !
My Father does the cooking , my mother does the cleaning and I do tidying up !
He took me right in front of my house .
The headmaster was extremely angry about it and he gave both students a heavy punishment , which was suspended from school for a week .
And always , every body made it surprisingly well .
Sara remembered the was golden fish .
When I went to her play to see , I realy would love to be a actress .
I am a fan of this band and I have never seen them in flesh .
I payed the same as who bought the tickets ten minutes before the theatre .
I am satisfied to have received your letter that informed me that I have won the first prize in your competition .
It was perfectly terrible evening out .
I think it is great and I want to try it .
It is rare the schools that do n't have a multimedia centre with many computers to the students use .
Technology brought simple solutions to my life .

